---
layout: post
title: about tanchao, at the end of 2021 version
author: Chao Tan
date: 2021-12-26 23:23:23 +0800
categories: career
tags: career tanchao
---

# TC

* 谭超, Tan Chao is the right sequence of my fullname.
* Call me `Chao` though, or `tc`.

## Who am I

* believe in long term value and cultural strength
* believe in "SDE = Somebody Do Everything", not just an engineer but also a problem solver.
  * believe in myself, confident to handle any problems; also know my limitation, and voice out if I'm there.
    * more specific, *any* probably limit to *technically* at this time.
* believe in automation #automate.everything.
* current interest is `dynamic software system performance tuning`, particularly the full-backend-stack, including clients, services, data store and its environment.

## What I am looking for

* I grew much faster when I was working with `great people`
* Amazon taught me how importantly the culture matters, so I am looking for next company with `its own culture`
* `Business model` determines fast vs normal lanes

## What did I do

* I `coded` since 2004 with B.S. in computer science; I actually programmed in my first job at 2008, which added `debugging, testing and deploying`; I named myself developer when I was in Singaore around 2010, when I started `creating softwares` beyond the job responsibility; I grew to a good engineer at eBay with a tech lead coaching me with `the automation methodology` at 2012; I became a senior engineer at HSBC after `led a gloal distributed engineer pod`.
* I am more than a software engineer here at Amazon, "SDE" now wearing TPM/PM/TL/Mentor all different hats. We pay attention to customer experience and business model, own end to end outcome; I could measure, observe and reason really really really complicated systems (hundreds of services) and offer alternative solutions for different purpose under various constraints; I could focus on the mechanism, process and culture to ensure the tech team is with a good habit so that whole E.E. (engineering excellence) is efficient; I could own as much as I am motivated to, O.E. (operational excellece), product, feature, design, code review, code change and wikis, for example my recent favorite was the launch plan for new buddy.

## What I am good at

* keeping customer and business outcome first
* watching over dynamic system end-to-end, including operational excellence
* making right technical trade-offs (as best I can) and balance between delivery vs perfection
* subject matter expert on some domains: developer platform, nearly realtime abnomaly detection and abuse prevention, micro-services, API design, Java Runtime
* managing complex projects and/or dealing with complex situations: long running project, turn-red-to-green, plan-b etc.
* leading engineer team via mechanism (coded or forced process), standards (normal process) and documentation
* mastering production incident handling (ACL) and trouble shooting
* staying foolish and hungry

## What I am not good at

* When I was emotional, probably 2-3 times in past 5 years, my ego increased during that period (around 1-2 months)
* I am more likely drive straight forward communication when called open communication, with my constructive feedbacks, as I also value efficiency and it worked *ok* so far.

## Why change?

* I benefited a lot from Amazon's culture and mechanisms, I believe there are many other great learnings from other great  organizations; I'd like to explore.
  * Suddenly, I felt ready to graduate from Amazon, I shall contribute my learnings and expertise to elsewhere.
* Alexa grew from 500 to 10k ppl since I joint, the challenges are no longer scalability but maintanenbility around me.

## Why now?

* I kept my eye open and always ready for next rocket ship
* I got my combo card recently and is waiting for my green card final process, eta. by May'22
  * (I-485 submitted on Oct'20, I-140 approved in mid 2021)