---
title: "Engineering Excellence"
description: "Amazon has a famous concept called OE which is short for Operational Excellence. The other term not so famous, is EE that short for Engineering Excellence. EE f"
date: "2022-02-03"
originalUrl: "https://tanchao.github.io/2022/02/03/e-e.html"
---

# Engineering Excellence

Amazon has a famous concept called `OE` which is short for Operational Excellence. The other term not so famous, is `EE` that short for Engineering Excellence. EE focus on the engineer development strengths and OE focus on the maintenance strengths.

## Onboarding Process

- differentiate between `Runbook Execution` vs `Runbook Understand`
    - for example, the runbook says *run command xyz on host abc.* Do it is simple, but **understand** it is not simple. Few questions to clarify to fully understand it:
        * what does the xyz do? why need this step?
        * why host *abc* not else? is it always hardcoded? what if that host is gone?

## Toolkits

### pUML

## Mentalality

### Ownership

Motivation

- Be proactive
- Curious and Learn

### Customer Obssession

Do the Right things

- working backwards
- focus on how it contributes to end customer/business/value

## Measure Productivity

Few tenets:
- Optimize as close as dev phase
- Pay attention to on-board phase
- Speak Same Language (same code style via checkstyle, same standard via SpotBug, same coverage via dryrun)

Metrics to watch:
- commit messages like a story
- commit pattern
- RedFlag: revert commits (revert revert is a hard stop)
- CR comments
- Pipeline stats
- PreProd success rates
- Prod rollbacks
- Priority Deployments
    - why do you need patch?
    - why can't do patch as deployment?
        - least required testing coverage ASAP
